2a.)
  --> Caesar Cipher :- It is a simply encrytion technique used send secret message . It works by shifting the letters in the plaintext message by a certain number of postions known as the 'shif' or 'Key'.
this technique is one of the earliest and simplest methods of encryption technique. fromual C=(p+k)mod26 p=(C-k)mod26
For EX:- 
plaintext=HELLO Shift = 3
H=K  
E=H
L=O
L=O
O=R
the encrypted message is KHOOR.

 --> Enimga Cipher :- It is a cipher device used to protect commercial diplomatic & military communication. It was considered so secure that it was used to encipher the  most top secrect messages. 
It is an electromechanical rotor mechanism that scrambles the 26 letters of alphabet. If plaintext is entered it illuminated letters to ciphertext. Entering ciphertext transform if back into readable plaintext.

2b.)
-->types of malwares

1.) Spyware :- It is a malicious S/W that enters a uers's computer gathaers data from the device and user and sends it to the third parties without their consent. 
	ex :- tracking cookies,password stealers,system monitor etc

2.) Rootkit :- it is a prg or a collection of malicious S/W tools that give a threat actor remote access to and control over a computer or other system and it is 
designed to create the backdoor for hacker.

3.) Virus :- its a type of malicious S/W that spreads B/W computers and causes damage to data and S/W it can infect a computer without permission or knowleadge of the user
ex:-  i love you , boot sector virus

4.) Ransomware :- it is designed to deny a user or organization access to files on their computer by encrypting the files/data and demanding the money for decryption 
key some versions of this can take advantage of S/W vulnerabilities to lock it down.
	ex :- phishing email 

5.) Worm :- A prg that replicates itself,automatically spreading through a N/W like virus it does not need user to run the computer.
	ex :- email worms,code red

3a.)
--> 
1.) Antivirus S/W :- It is a security prg designed to prevent, detect,search and remove viruses and other types of malware from computers , N/W and other devices.
2.) Anti-Spyware :- it is a type of prg designed to prevent & detect unwanted spyware prg installations & to remove those prg if installed.
3.) Password :- Giving a strong password to devices so that unauthorized person can't access the devices or it will prevent from brute-froce-attacks.
4.) Firewall :- It is a N/W security device that monitors incoming and outgoing N/W traffic and decides whether to allow or block specific traffic based on a defined set of security rules.
5.) S/W Updates :- the need for regular S/W and patch management to prevent vulnerabilites.
6.) Backup data :- 

3b.)

--> Encryption :- The process of encoding info known as plaintext into an alternative from known as ciphertext.
1.) plaintext :- It is the data to be protected during transmission.
2.) Encryption Algorithm :- it is a methematical process that produces a ciphertext for any given plaintext & encryption key.
3.) Ciphertext :- It is the scrambled version of the plaintext produced by the encryption algorthim using a specific the encryption key.

--> Digital Signature :- It is a methematical technnic used to validate authencity of a preson
ex :- internet banking , user,email password ,UPI code
1.) Authentication
2.) Non repudation
3.) Integrity
4.) Confidentiality

--> Hashing :- It is a process of scrumbing a piece of info or data beyond recogation they are design to be irreversible we pass the input through a hash function to calculate the hash value / digest.

--> hash function :- Any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary size to fixed-size values.

--> key generation :- the generation of a cryptographic key either as a single process using a random bit generator and an apporved set of rules or as created during key agreement or key derivation.
